# My Dotfiles

In this repository I'm managing the dotfiles I use to setup my entire development workflow using three main applications, namely: a) Alacritty; b) Zellij; and c) Neovim. I use this setup to code mainly in Python and Rust, so expect LSPs cofigured for liting, formatting, and completing for these languages. Additionally, I use this entire setup on Pop!_OS, which is a Ubuntu-based linux distribution, so for porting it to MacOS or Windows, do your own research (it should be quite easy).

# Table of Contents
+ Alacritty Installation and Setup
+ Zellij Installation and Setup
+ Neovim Installation and Setup (with LazyVim)

## Alacritty Installation and Setup
Alacritty is my favorite cross-platform terminal emulator. Install as follows:
+ Follow the instructions at the official Alacritty <a href="https://github.com/alacritty/alacritty" target="blank">GitHub repository</a>.
+ Create the *~/.config/alacritty* directory in your system and populate it with my *alacritty.toml* file.

> [!NOTE]
> The only customizations I made to this setup was: a) modified window's padding, opacity, and startup mode; b) set JetBrainsMonoNerdFont with size of 12 as the default font; and c) set solarized-osaka as the colorscheme.

## Zellij Installation and Setup
Zellij is a powerful rust-based terminal workspace manager that is really useful for managing multiple panels and tabs in a same terminal session. Install as follows:
+ Follow the instructions at the official <a href="https://zellij.dev">Zellij website</a> (I use Rust's cargo)
+ Create the *~/.config/zellij* directory in your system, and then populate it with my *config.kdl* file.

> [!NOTE]
> The only change I made in this configuration file was to set the color theme to "solarized-dark", which mathces pretty well with Solarized-Osaka, which is my favorite colorscheme for everything.

## Neovim Installation and Setup (with LazyVim)
I use Neovim as my text editor of choice, pre-configured with the <a href="https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim" target="blank">Kickstart</a> project. It is lightweight, fast, and super minimal. Usually I install it via the **unstable** PPA, since most Neovim distros only supports recent versions of the editor.

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:neovim-ppa/stable -y

# OR

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:neovim-ppa/unstable -y

# THEN

sudo apt update && sudo apt install neovim
```

After installing Neovim, create the *~/.config/nvim*, and then populate it with my *~/.config/nvim* files originally generated by Kickstart, but modified by me to fit my development needs. These are important highlights about my Neovim setup:
+ It is centered around Python and Rust.
+ No React/Vue/Angular, only Jinja2, HTMX, Alpine.js, and Tailwind.
+ Solarized osaka is my favorite colorscheme of all times.
+ This is a minimal yet powerful and productive setup.
